PAGE 1:
Rulebook

PAGE 2:
Table of Contents Components 3 Setup 4-5 Your Area 6 Your Deck 7 Rewards 8 Remove, Upgrade, Transform 8 The Map 9 Combat Setup 10-11 Combat Round 12-13 Enemy Actions 13 Actions & Effects 14 Targeting & Modes 15 Characters 16-17 FAQ 18-19 Triggered Abilities 19 Unlocks & Ascension 20 Achievements & Daily Climb 21 Act IV & Quick Start Rules 22 Optional Rules 23 Credits 23 Abilities & Keywords 24 Your First Game Ironclad and Silent are easier characters to learn,  with Defect being harder and Watcher hardest.  Keep this in mind when choosing a character!  Winning & Losing Get the Free Companion App! •   Victory  -  If players defeat the final Boss, they  win the game! Which Boss you consider to be  final depends on how many Acts you want to  play. You can stop playing at the end of any Act! •   Death  -  When a player’s HP is reduced to 0,  they are dead and the party loses the game. Playtime The game is divided into Acts. Each Act takes about  60-90 minutes. Plan for some extra time your first  game. At the end of an Act you can continue, stop and  end the adventure there, or save and continue another  time! With searchable rulebook,  soundtrack, card library,  achievement tracking,    and more!  (Not required to play the game.) Game Overview Slay the Spire is a cooperative rogue-like deckbuilding adventure. Craft a unique deck, encounter  bizarre creatures, discover relics of immense power, and finally become strong enough to defeat  the boss at the end of the Act! Rules Overview Video Slay the Spire is a  Deckbuilder . That means  each player starts with a simple deck of  cards that they can improve by adding and  removing cards during the game.    Slay the Spire is also a  rogue-like . That  means that when you die (and you will die!),  start over from the beginning. Take the  lessons you learned and try again! 2

PAGE 3:
Components  85 Ironclad  (red)   87 Silent  (green)   85 Defect  (blue)   85 Watcher  (purple) 17 Curses 22 Colorless 113 Tokens 450 Sleeves 1 Ascension  Reference 31 Dividers 8 Small Dividers Ascension cards start locked. Don’t  use them until instructed to do so. 36 Status 381 Player Cards 43 Encounters 12/12/10   (3/3/3) Act 1/2/3: (Ascension Act 1/2/3): 89 Summons 35/31/20   (0/2/1) 27 Elites 3/3/3 (6/6/6) 51 Events 12/14/11 (6/5/2)   (1 in unlock deck) 10 Daze 14 Neow’s Blessing (20 including  unlocks) (including unlocks) 4 1st Encounters Merchant Board/Player Aid 2 Main Boards HP Board 50 Plastic    Cubes 11 Boss Cards (26 including unlocks) 1 Solo  Relic 4 Prismatic  Shard 20 Boss  Relics 58 Relics 29 Potions 1 Boot  Meeple 1 Die 112 Small Cards 4 Minis 4 Player Boards 3

PAGE 4:
1. Pick a Character -  Each player chooses a character and takes the corresponding player  board, mini, starter deck, card rewards deck, and rare rewards deck. Shuffle the decks. 2. Token Tray -  Take out the token tray.   3. Player Board -  Put a cube on your character’s Energy track at 3, on their Block track at 0,  and on their HP track at the highest printed number. 4. Get Decks Ready -  Take out the following decks. Shuffle each deck except Summons,    Daze  , and Status  / , then place them in separate piles. Shuffle and keep the “1st  Encounter!” cards separate from the Encounter deck. 5. The Board -  Take out the Act I board. Randomly choose an Act I map. 6. Map Tokens -  Shuffle the map tokens face down. Randomly place dark map tokens on dark  spaces, and light map tokens on light spaces. Then flip the tokens face up. 7. Character Figure -  Place your character figure on the board in the lowest open space.  8. Reveal the Boss -  Randomly choose an Act I Boss. You can roll the die    and use the Boss with  the matching die result on the back of the card. Place that Boss face down on the map on top of  the   icon.  9. The Boot -  Place the boot meeple at the bottom of the map next to the bottom encounter  .  10. Player Aid / Merchant Board -   Keep the Player Aid board handy as a quick rules reference.  When you encounter a Merchant  , flip the board over and set up the Merchant side. 11. Neow’s Blessing -  Shuffle the Neow’s Blessing deck (three-eyed whale). Each player draws  one Neow’s Blessing card. Gain the reward in red, then choose one of the 3 rewards in blue  (see Rewards, page 8). When players are done, put all Neow’s Blessing cards away.  12. Solo -  If you’re playing solo, also gain      and the “Loaded Die” solo relic. 13. 1st Encounter -  Setup the 1st Encounter   (see page 10, Combat Setup). Then start combat.  Setup Setup for Acts II & III A. Act Decks -  Replace the  , , , and  decks  with decks for the next Act. Shuffle all of  those decks except Summons . Note:  Only Act I has a “1st Encounter” deck. B. Board Setup -  Repeat steps 5 through 9 with the board and Boss from the next Act.  C. Heal -  All players heal to their maximum HP at the start of Act II and later Acts. D. Shuffle -  Shuffle your card rewards deck. Include any cards you skipped.  (Don’t shuffle rares.) •   Encounter  Act I “1st Encounter!” •   Encounter  Act I •    Elite  Act I  •    Summon  Act I  Don’t shuffle! •    Event Act I •    Relic  •    Potion  •    Boss Relic  •       Daze Deck  •   /     Status Deck  •   Curse Deck 4

PAGE 5:
(yellow border) (black border) (gray border) Don’t  use this  token until  instructed  to do so. Rare Rewards Start  here 9 7 8 2 6 5 1 3 4 10 13 12 11 Card Rewards Place  cubes  here Starter Deck Curse    Deck Status    Deck Daze    Deck 5

PAGE 6:
Your Play Area •   Draw Pile -  Shuffle your deck before combat begins to create your draw pile.  •   Discard Pile -  After you play a card, it goes to your discard pile. •   Exhaust Pile -  When you Exhaust a card, place it in the exhaust pile. You can’t use it again this combat.  •   Item Area -  Items are small cards. Keep items you gain in front of you.  •   Power Area  - When you play a Power, it stays in play until the end of combat. Keep Powers in front of  you. At the end of combat, they return to your deck. Below is a suggestion for how to organize your play area. Do whatever works for you! Each character has a  unique starting ability on  their player board.  Tokens Keep tokens for your  character on your  player board. Keep track  of your gold and any  buffs/debuffs this way.  You may prefer to keep     tokens near your  character mini.  Hit Points  (HP) When your character takes  damage or loses HP, your HP  goes down. When you heal,  your HP goes up. Keep a red  cube on your HP to track it.  Your HP starts at the highest  number on your player  board. Damage  can be prevented with Block      (see back of rulebook).  HP Draw Pile Discard Pile Exhaust Pile Powers Items Starting Ability Cubes 6

PAGE 7:
Energy Cost Name Banner Card  Type Rare Uncommon Common Starter Text Card Types •   Attack -  Attacks deal damage to enemies.  •   Skill -  Skills block damage and have other useful abilities.  •   Power -  Powers give you abilities that last the entire  combat. Powers stay on the table in front of the player.  •   Curse -  Curses are bad cards that can get added to your  deck. Curses can’t be Transformed. When you gain a Curse,  add the top Curse card to your deck. •   Status & Daze  - Powerful enemies can weaken your deck  by adding Status  / ,  and Daze    cards to it. Remove  these from your deck at the end of each combat. Your Deck Energy     –  Energy is used to play cards. You  can have a maximum of 6 Energy at once. Each character  has their own Energy icon, although they all mean the same  thing. You can gain Energy from sources with icons that  don’t match your character. You’ll usually see “ ” used to  mean Energy on items and in the rules.  X Cost Cards  - You can spend any amount of Energy when  playing an X cost card, including 0. It has an effect based on  how much Energy you spend. The text will tell you the effect  for spending X Energy. Banner & Rarity  - Cards have different rarities, which you can tell by the color of the banner  behind their name. Gray banners are common, blue banners are uncommon, and yellow banners are  rare. There are 2 copies of all commons. Starter deck cards have gray banners and gray borders.  Each character’s starter deck has 4 or 5 starter Strikes and starter Defends. Text Name Gold Cost  - This is the cost  to purchase the item from  the Merchant  . Not all  items have a gold cost. Items are small cards that you’ll collect on your adventure. There are  Relics  , Boss Relics  , and Potions  . There’s also the Loaded Die  solo relic (see below). Keep items in front of you.  Loaded Die  -  When  playing solo, start with  the Loaded Die.  On a  , it can trigger  its own   ability,  or a die relic ability on  another relic. Items 7

PAGE 8:
Rewards There are several types of rewards below... but first, some general rules about rewards! •   Pick Order  – Gain rewards in any order you want! •   Skip -  You may skip gaining any reward below. You may also skip revealing or drawing from any rewards deck. •   Full Knowledge -  After revealing cards or items, you can look at what the other rewards are from that combat  before making any final decisions on what to choose or skip. You can check upgrades. If you’re ever unsure if  you’ll get to see another combat reward from your current room before finalizing a choice, the answer is yes. •   Trading -  Potions can be given to other players outside of combat. Nothing else can be traded.  Card Reward  – Reveal the top 3 cards of your card rewards deck and lay them out in front of you.  You may add one revealed card to your deck or skip adding a card. Return any unselected cards to the  bottom of your card rewards deck.   Golden Ticket  – Whenever you reveal a Golden Ticket, reveal the top card of your rare rewards  deck and add that to your choices. Unpicked rare cards return to the bottom of your rare rewards  deck. Put the Golden Ticket on the bottom of your card rewards deck. Upgraded Card Reward  – This is just like a “card reward” above, but the card you pick is immediately  upgraded (see Upgrade below). You can always look at what an upgrade does before choosing. Rare Reward  – Reveal 3 cards from your rare rewards deck and lay them out in front of you. You  may add one to your deck or skip. Return any unselected cards to the bottom of your rare rewards deck. Potion  – Draw a card from the potion deck. You may gain that potion or skip it. Keep it face up in  front of you until used. You can’t have more than 3 potions. Potions are all single-use items. When a  potion is used, discarded, or skipped, put it on the bottom of the potion deck. If you gain a potion but  you’re at the limit, you must either: skip the potion, pass the potion to a player who is below their potion  limit, or discard or use a potion then gain the new potion. Gambler’s Brew, Entropic Brew, Blood Potion,  and Fairy in a Bottle can be used outside of combat if applicable.  Relic  – Draw a card from the relic deck. You may gain that relic or skip it. Keep your relics face up  in front of you. When relics are discarded or skipped, put them on the bottom of the relic deck.  Boss Relic  – Reveal 1 Boss relic per player + 1. Reveal 3 instead if playing solo. Each player may gain  a relic or skip. Keep your Boss relics face up in front of you. When Boss relics are discarded or  skipped, return them to the bottom of the Boss relic deck.  Gold  – Gain gold tokens equal to the value. Gold can be spent at the Merchant or certain Events.  You can use your gold to pay for any amount of another player’s purchase at a Merchant or Event.    Remove, Upgrade, Transform •   Remove  -  Remove a card from your deck. Keep it in a removed pile away from your deck.  •   Upgrade  -  Unsleeve a card in your deck and flip it to the upgraded side (has green text). You can check  what a card’s upgrade is at any time by unsleeving it or checking the Upgrade Reference. •   Transform  -  Remove a card from your deck that isn’t a Curse. Keep it in a removed pile away from  your deck. Add the top card of your card rewards to your deck (it should be random). If it’s a Golden  Ticket, add the top card of your rare rewards to your deck instead, then put the Golden Ticket on the  bottom of your card rewards. Below are 3 types of rewards that can change your deck. 8

PAGE 9:
The Map You start at the encounter  on the bottom of the map. When you’re done with a room, move the  meeple up the map along one of the paths to the next room. See rules for each type of room below: Elite   Draw a card from the Elite deck  (see Combat Setup, page 10) . Boss  When you reach the Boss, start combat against the Boss card at the top of the map (see Combat Setup,  page 10). If the Boss is defeated, you beat the Act! After gaining rewards, you can save and continue later,  proceed to the next Act (see page 4, Setup), or end the game here. Encounter   1st Encounter!  - If this is the first encounter, place a “1st Encounter!” card in each player’s row  (see  Combat Setup, page 10) . After combat, set aside the 1st Encounter cards (they’re no longer needed). Other Encounters -  Draw one encounter card per player  (see Combat Setup, page 10) .  Event Draw a card from the Event deck. If there is text in  [yellow brackets] [yellow brackets] ,    each player must choose one of those options. Each player makes  their own choice and acts once in any order. Some Events work  differently, as described in their text. To choose a “Pay” or “Give”  option, you must first have what it is asking you to pay or give. When  all players are done, put the Event on the bottom of the Event deck.  Event Card Flavor  text Campfire Each player chooses one of two actions, Rest or Smith: Treasure Each player gains a relic  .  .  •   Rest  - Heal 3 HP.       •   Smith  - Upgrade a card. Merchant Place 3 relics   and 3 potions  on the merchant board in the indicated slots. Each player  reveals the top 3 cards of their card rewards deck.  You can use your gold to pay for any amount of  another player’s purchase at a Merchant or Event.  Players can... •   Buy Items  - Buy   or   for the gold cost on the bottom right of the item. The relic in the top left  is on sale for 1 less gold. •   Buy Cards  - Buy cards you revealed for  ,  , or   based on their rarity (see merchant board).  Gray banner cards are common  , blue banners are uncommon  , yellow banners are rare  .  •   Card Remove  - Pay   to remove a card from your deck. Each player can only do this once per  Merchant. When you’re done, return any unpurchased cards to the bottom of the deck they  came from in any order.   9

PAGE 10:
Combat Setup Rows -  Each player has a row. Enemies are placed  in rows, except for Bosses.  Summons  -   Some enemies will summon more  enemies. If you see a green bar and this icon  ,   then search for  that enemy in the  Summons deck and  put them into play at the start of combat. Some  enemy actions or special abilities can also summon. Random Summons -  When multiple Summons  have the same name, select them randomly. You  can do this by picking one without reading its  abilities or shuffling Summons with the same  name in a small face down pile and drawing one.  “Gremlins” have a Gremlin icon on the back to help  you select them randomly. Encounters  -  Place one enemy in each player’s  row. If there are Summons  , they are placed in the  row of the enemy that summoned them to the right. Encounter Setup Enemy Cards S ummons Special Abilities     Special abilities appear in  Yellow Yellow . Usually  they’re always active, but some have triggers  or don’t have an effect until later in the fight.  For example, the  Fungi Beast ’s  Spore Cloud Spore Cloud   ability triggers when it dies.  The  Gremlin  Nob ’s  Enraged Enraged   ability doesn’t  start until turn 2  of combat. Rewards Name Enemy  action Summon box Special    ability Starting HP. Put a cube  on numbers  with yellow  outlines. 11+ HP Some monsters have  more than 10 HP.  Use 2 cubes. 10

PAGE 11:
HP Board Some enemies use the HP board.  Their HP is formatted like this.  The top number is their starting  HP for 1 player, the next number  down is for 2 players, etc. Set  their HP using cubes. Elites  - Place one Elite in the bottom row.  If there are Summons, place them in each  player’s row with the Elite to their right. Bosses are treated as being in all rows.  Keep them to the right of the board with any  Summons in rows and closer to the board.  Elite with Summons Elite Elite Setup   Boss Setup Elite Elite Rewards Name Rewards Name Enemy actions Starting HP 11

PAGE 12:
Combat Round  - Player Turn Player Turn Shuffle your deck before combat starts. There’s one shared  Player Turn  that’s broken into the phases  below: Start of Turn, Play, End of Turn. All players take these steps simultaneously. •   Start of Turn 1.   Reset -  Set Energy   to 3 and Block  to 0. 2.   Draw -  Draw 5 cards. There is no maximum hand size. Empty Draw Pile -  When your draw pile is empty and you need to draw, your discard pile  becomes the new draw pile. Shuffle it. If a card was just played that drew you cards, that card is  set aside while you shuffle, then added to the new discard pile. 3.   Roll -  Roll the die  . If any abilities can change the die result, they must be used now before  resolving other abilities. The die result tells you what action some monsters will take later during  the Enemy Turn and which relic abilities are about to trigger (see next step). One die result  determines all die effects for the round! Don’t roll it again until next round! 4.   Start of turn abilities  - The following abilities trigger in any order players choose:  •   Start of turn -  Abilities that have “Start of turn” or “Start of round” text. •   Start of combat -  These abilities only trigger on the first turn of combat.  •   Die relic abilities -  Abilities that trigger on the indicated die   result.  •   Play Players can play cards, use potions, and activate abilities in any order they choose.  •   Discuss -  Players can discuss strategy, such as which enemies to attack and which players need  help. It is encouraged to announce if you have Weak    or  Vulnerable   effects early in the  turn, as well as to ask questions like, “How much damage do you have?” or “Do you have enough  Block?” rather than look at a player’s hand.  To play a card: •   Pay -  Pay the Energy   cost on the upper left of the card. Track Energy on your board.  •   Choose -  Make any decisions and choose targets for the card. You can target any enemy with  your effects. Effects with a  symbol affect all enemies in one row and always affect the Boss. •   Being Played -  While the card is being played, it isn’t in your hand or in your discard pile. •   Resolve -  Execute the card’s printed effects from top to bottom. Any abilities triggered by the  card don’t take effect until after the card is finished resolving all of its text. •   Cleanup -  The card goes to your discard pile. If it’s a Power, instead place it face up in front of  you. If it Exhausts, it goes to your exhaust pile.  (Note:   Exhaust to the deck they came from.) •   End of Turn When players are done playing cards, the following effects occur: 1.   End of turn abilities  - Abilities that have an “End of turn” effect trigger in any order players choose.  The phrase “End of turn” is only used to refer to the end of the Player Turn  (never the Enemy Turn) . 2.   Discard  - Discard all cards in your hand in any order. Combat rounds consist of a Player Turn followed by an Enemy Turn. Rounds repeat until combat ends. 12

PAGE 13:
Combat Round  - Enemy Turn Enemy Action Types Enemies target the player in their row. Actions with a  symbol target  all players. There are 3 types of enemy behavior patterns: •   Single Action -  The enemy takes the listed action every turn. •   Die Action -  The enemy takes the action to the right of the die result. •   Cube Action -  At the start of combat, put a cube in the top cube slot.  The enemy takes the action to the right of the cube during the “Enemy  Actions” phase. During the “Move Cube Actions” phase, slide the cube  down the track. When it reaches the bottom of the track, move the  cube to the topmost red cube slot. Gray cube actions are not repeated. The Dead   When enemies are reduced to 0 HP, they are dead and lose their tokens. Flip them  over until the end of combat. When a player dies, the game immediately ends in defeat.  Enemy Turn The  Enemy  Turn  is broken into the phases: Remove Enemy Block, Enemy Actions, Move Cube Actions.  1.  Remove Enemy Block     -  Enemies lose all of their leftover Block   tokens. 2. Enemy Actions  -  Starting with the highest row, enemies act left to right taking one action  each. Then enemies in the next row down act left to right. This continues until all enemies in all  rows have acted once. Bosses always act last. Enemies that say “acts last” act after other enemies.  See types of enemy actions below. 3. Move Cube Actions  -  If an enemy uses  Cube Actions  (see below), slide their cube down the  track. Then the combat round repeats.   Combat ends immediately when all monsters are dead or have left combat, unless an enemy had an “on  death” ability that is going to summon an enemy.  At the end of combat: 1.   End of Combat Abilities  -  Abilities that say “End of combat” trigger now. 2.   R ewards -  Players gain the rewards on the upper left of the enemy’s card (see page 8). In encounters,  gain rewards from the enemy in the row you ended combat in. In Boss and Elite fights, all players gain  the rewards. 3.   R eset Your Deck  - Return your Powers, discard pile, and exhaust pile to your deck. Remove any  /   and    cards from your deck and return them to their respective decks.  4.   R eset Player Board  - Reset the Block  and Energy tracks. Lose all tokens ( )  except for  gold. The Defect removes all Orbs. The Watcher enters Neutral Stance. 5.    C  lear Enemies -  Put  and   on the bottom of their respective decks. Summons return to the  Summons deck.  6.   S witch Rows  -   Players may switch rows anytime between now and before the next combat room. End of Combat 13

PAGE 14:
Multi-hits Some Attacks have multiple hits    on the same card, like Twin Strike. Some cards say “deal X  for  each...”, like Finisher or Barrage. Some enemy actions have multiple hits    in one action. All of these  are examples of a  multi-hit .   •   All   on a multi-hit have the same target (unless stated otherwise) . •   All   on a multi-hit are affected equally by any damage bonuses, such as from  . •   All   on a multi-hit are affected equally by   or  . Remove one  /  token when the entire  multi-hit is complete. With Weak  , each   has its damage reduced. The Ironclad plays  Twin Strike  against a Cultist with a  Vulnerable   token. The Twin Strike deals double damage,  2   2 , for a total of 4 damage . Then the Vulnerable  token is removed. Multi-hit Example Player Effect Examples 1  - Deal 1 damage to any enemy.  1   1  - Deal 1 damage to any enemy. Deal 1 damage to the same enemy.  2  - Deal 2 damage to an enemy. Give that enemy a   token.   3  - Deal 3 damage to all enemies in a row  (and the Boss, if present) .  - Put a   token on all enemies in a row  (and the Boss, if present).  Enemy Action Examples Note:  When an enemy gains  Strength    or  Block   , it always goes on the enemy, never on you.  2   1   - Deal 2 damage to the player in this row. This enemy gains 1 Block    token.  1    - Deal 1 damage to the player in this row. This enemy gains a    token.  2   - Deal 2 damage to the player in this row. Give that player a   token.    2   2    - Deal 2 damage to all players twice. Give all players a   token.   - The player in this row puts a    card on top of their deck.  -  All players put 2  /  cards in their discard pile. All Status cards are   this combat.  -  The player in this row puts a  /  card in their discard pile. All Status cards are   this combat. Most icons are explained on the back of the rulebook or the player aid. Below are examples of what these  symbols mean when used on player cards or enemy actions. Actions & Effects Icons on the Back     Most icons are explained  on the back of the rulebook.  These icons    are  explained on page 17.   vs Vulnerable  token. 14

PAGE 15:
Targeting for Players Targeting for Enemies Modes Some Bosses have different “Modes”, like  The  Guardian . The enemy can only use actions and  abilities from the mode it is currently in. The  Guardian starts in  Attack Mode .  When The Guardian enters  Defensive Mode ,  move the cube to the first action of the new mode. Effects with the   icon or that say  “any row” target all enemies in a single  row. They also always affect the Boss. Players can target  any enemy. Enemy   actions target all players. Enemies target the player in their row. 15

PAGE 16:
Strength  (max 8) The Ironclad has many ways to gain Strength  . A player can  have a maximum of 8 .  You deal +1 damage on each hit   for  each  token you have. Exhaust   The Ironclad has many ways to Exhaust cards and synergies  with Exhaust. See the back of the rulebook for more on Exhaust. Extra HP   The Ironclad starts with more HP than any other character. The Ironclad The remaining soldier of the Ironclads. Sold his soul to harness demonic energies. The Defect Combat automaton which became self-aware. Ancient technology allows manipulation of Orbs. Channel When the Defect Channels an Orb, place an Orb of that type in an open Orb slot on the player board.  Use yellow cubes for Lightning, blue cubes for Frost, and purple cubes for Dark. If a card Channels  multiple Orbs, Channel them one at a time. If you Channel an Orb and don’t have any more cubes,  ignore the effect. End of Turn At end of turn, gain the “End of turn” effect for each Lightning and Frost Orb as shown on the Defect  player board. Choose targets for Lightning Orbs. They can each have a different target.  Evoke When an effect Evokes an Orb, remove an Orb of your choice from its  slot and apply the Evoke effect for that type of Orb as written on the  Defect player board. If you play Dual Cast, Evoke an Orb twice. Each  Lightning and Dark Orb Evoke effect can have a different target. Orb slots are full -  If you Channel an Orb and all Orb slots are full,  Evoke any Orb, then place the Channeled Orb in its slot. When multiple  Orbs are Channeled at once, resolve this effect one Orb at a time. How are Orbs different from the video game? Do I have to Evoke the front Orb, like in the video game? Do Orbs rotate  like in the video game? Do I have to Channel Orbs into a particular slot?  No, no, and no. You can Channel an Orb into  any  empty Orb slot, and  you can Evoke  any  Orb you have. All Orb slots are treated the same. 16

PAGE 17:
The Silent A deadly huntress from the foglands. Eradicates foes with daggers and poisons. Poison  (max 30) Place a Poison token   on a target for each   icon on the effect. At  the end of turn, enemies with   lose 1 HP per   token they have.  Losing HP ignores Block    (Poison   doesn’t deal damage). Don’t  remove Poison   tokens from an enemy until they are dead. There  can’t be more than 30 Poison   combined on all enemies. Shivs  (max 5) Shivs  are tokens that may be used to deal 1  whenever you could  play a card. Each   is treated as a separate Attack and is affected  separately by Strength , Vulnerable , and Weak  . You start combat  with 0 Shiv tokens, and gain Shiv tokens from cards with the Shiv    icon. They don’t go away until used or the end of combat. You can use  them immediately or save them up for a combo!  Note:  If you’re out of Shiv tokens and you gain a Shiv  , you can deal Shiv  damage immediately or skip gaining the Shiv. Shivs don’t count as cards. The Watcher A blind ascetic who has come to “Evaluate” the Spire. Master of the divine Stances. Stances Start each combat in Neutral Stance. The Watcher can enter or leave Stances to gain different abilities.  When you enter a Stance, move the cube to the new Stance. You cannot enter a Stance you are already  in (the effect is ignored).  Miracles  (max 5) Miracle   tokens can be used any time to gain 1 Energy  . You can’t have more than 5   at once.  Gain  Miracle tokens from cards and abilities with the   icon. Your starting ability gives you a  . You  can use Miracles to go over the Energy limit (max 6) if they are immediately used to pay for a card. Scry & Retain -  See the back of the rulebook for Scry and Retain descriptions. Neutral -  Start each combat in Neutral Stance. Neutral  doesn’t grant any abilities.  Calm -  When you leave Calm, gain 2 Energy  .  Wrath -  While you are in Wrath, you deal +1 damage  on all hits  . This is effectively the same as having 1  Strength . This bonus only lasts until you leave Wrath.  If you end your turn in Wrath, take 1 damage.    ( Reminder:  Damage can be blocked.) 17

PAGE 18:
FAQs & Random Rules Specific Card Interactions •   Is there a maximum hand size?    No, there is no maximum hand size.  •   Can Block  prevent an effect that says “Lose X HP”?    No. You can only block damage. Damage comes  from hits   and “damage” effects.  •   What if we run out of tokens?  If you run out of tokens, you can’t gain or apply more tokens. The effect  is ignored. This is true whether it’s gaining gold, Strength  , or applying Poison . But keep in mind  with Shivs  , you can use them immediately to deal damage (see Shivs on previous page). So a Shiv  should never go to waste unless you want it to. •   Do cards remember?   Cards have no memory once they leave your hand. Once they leave your hand,  cards don’t know if they were Retained last turn, their cost changed, etc. However, cards with an  ability that changes their own cost still have an effect while in the discard pile. So for example: While  Streamline is in the discard pile with 2 Powers in play, it’s treated as costing 0.  •   Starter Strike vs “containing Strike”: what does this mean?  A “starter Strike” is one of the Strikes in a  starter deck. A card that “contains Strike” has the word “Strike” somewhere in its name. •   What happens if I Transform a colorless card?  The added card comes from your card rewards deck. •   Do I remove any Weak  , Vulnerable  , and Poison   tokens at end of round?  Nope. See back of  rulebook for details.  •   Do Summons leave combat when all other enemies are killed?  No. Unlike the video game, Summons  don’t “flee” combat when the enemy that summoned them is killed.  •   Does Buffer prevent all HP loss from a multi-hit?   HP loss from each hit   in a multi-attack can  trigger Buffer separately. •   How do “play” effects like Distilled Chaos and Mayhem work with cards when they can’t be played  like Clash, Signature Move, and Tactician?  If an effect tries to play a card that can’t be played, ignore  the effect and discard that card instead.  •   I played Corpse Explosion twice. What happens?   The on death effect will only happen once. •   How does Dark Embrace work with Ethereal cards?   When an Ethereal card Exhausts at end of turn, it  triggers Dark Embrace and you draw a card. For cards you draw this way, ignore their “End of turn” and  Ethereal abilities this turn. Don’t discard any cards you draw this way during the discard step. •   How do Dark Orbs work with cards like Consume?  Consume boosts a Dark Orb’s damage by 2 (1  because that’s the card’s effect, and 1 because it’s a Power). A Dark Orb’s “+1 damage for each Power you  have in play” effect isn’t affected by abilities on cards like Consume or Amplify. •   Can I use Gambling Chip, The Abacus, or Toolbox at Events?  Yes. “Once per room” abilities can be used  at Events if applicable.  •   What happens if you play   with a Havoc, Mayhem, or Distilled Chaos?   The   is Exhausted. •   What  happens if Snecko changes the Energy cost of a card, and that conflicts with other cost  changes?  Your next card is played for the Snecko cost, regardless of other cost change effects. •   How does Tantrum work with Rushdown?   Any abilities triggered by a card don’t take effect until after  the card has finished resolving all of its text (see “To play a card”, page 12). So Tantrum goes on top of  your deck, then Rushdown triggers and you draw Tantrum again. •   Does Wrist Blade work with cards that temporarily cost 0 Energy?  Yes, except it only works with  copies if the original card was also played for 0 Energy (see Playing Copies on next page). •   During the Act IV Elite combat, can you switch into an empty row?  Yes. 18

PAGE 19:
Playing Copies When a card is played multiple times, each copy is treated as a separate card. Copies do not cost  Energy to play. If the card has X in the Energy cost, the copies use the same value of X as the original.  Each copy can have different targets and is affected separately by Vulnerable , Weak  , and single- use bonuses. Copies cannot also be copied.  A card can only be affected by one effect that plays cards multiple times. Any additional effects that  would play a card multiple times wait for the next valid card. For example: If you use two Skill Potions,  then play a Skill, it is played twice. The 2nd Skill Potion has no effect until you play another Skill. The copies are played first. While the copies are being played, the original isn’t in your hand or in  your discard pile. When the original resolves, it then goes to your discard pile.  Cards from Other Characters •   Tokens -  You can use tokens from other characters the same way they do. The token limit  remains the same, but it is shared between all players.  •   Transform -  When you Transform a card from another character or a colorless card, a dd  the new card from the top of your character’s card rewards deck. •   Golden Tickets -  When you reveal a Golden Ticket from another character’s  card rewards, the rare comes from that character’s rare deck. •   Stances and Orbs -  If you gain the ability to enter Stances or use Orbs from  another character, gain the Prismatic Shard special relic. Start each combat  in Neutral Stance. The Defect doesn’t gain more Orb slots this way. The  Watcher can’t enter Stances on the Prismatic Shard.  Triggered Abilities On death -  When an enemy with this ability dies, the ability triggers.  Start of turn -  Relics and Powers with this phrase trigger at the start of the Player Turn (see Combat  Round, page 12). Note that the Enemy Turn doesn’t have a “Start of Turn” phase. Start of combat -  These abilities are like “Start of turn” abilities, but only trigger turn 1 of combat. Start of next round -  This refers to the “Start of Turn” phase during the next Player Turn. (See Combat  Round page 12.) This trigger is found on some Bosses. End of turn -  Relics and Powers with this phrase trigger at the end of the Player Turn (see  Combat Round, page 12). Note that the Enemy Turn doesn’t have an “End of Turn” phase. End of combat -  These abilities trigger at “End of combat” (see Combat Round, page 13).  Once per combat -  These abilities can only be used once per combat. Use them anytime  during the Player Turn. Once used, f lip the item face down. Flip it face up after combat. Once per room -  This ability is found on items that can only be used once per combat or  Event. They typically alter the die result, and so can affect Events that use the die. Once  used, f lip the item over. Flip it face up after combat or when the party is done with the  Event. Die relic abilities   -  These abilities trigger on a die result at the “Start of turn” (see    page 12). These abilities are only found on relics   and Boss relics  .  Some abilities don’t have an effect until the conditions of their trigger are met. Examples are: 19

PAGE 20:
20     1.  Harder Elites  -  Open the Ascension pack. Replace      Elites in each Act with the  1   Elites.       2.  Lose 1 Max HP  -  Your maximum HP is 1 lower. Put a black cube in your highest HP slot.      3.  Harder Events  -  Open the Ascension pack. Add the  3 cards to the appropriate decks.     4.  Potion Limit is 2  -  You’re limited to 2 potions (instead of 3).     5.  Start Cursed  -  During setup, add Ascender’s Bane to your starter deck.     6.  Heal 4 HP after Boss  -  You heal 4 HP instead of to full HP at the start of Acts II & later.      7.   Harder Encounters  -  Replace   Encounters with corresponding  7 cards. Add the  7     Summons.     8.  Card Removes Cost 4   -  Card Removes cost 4 gold at the Merchant  .     9.  Start Damaged  -  Lose 1 HP at the start of the game (after losing 1 Max HP from  2).     10.  Harder Bosses  -  Only use the  10 Boss deck.     11.  Harder Act IV  -  Use the  11 Corrupt Heart. Fight the  11 Elites in Act IV.     12.  Harder Elites  -  Replace      Elites in Acts I through III with the  12   Elites.       13.  Double Act 3 Boss  -  After defeating the Act III Boss, fight a different random Act III Boss.  After you defeat an Act II Boss (Act III if you’re playing solo), unlock Ascension    1 .  To unlock higher  Ascensions  ,  you must be playing with the modifiers of all previous Ascension levels and defeat an Act  II Boss (Act III if you’re playing solo). You don’t have to play on the highest Ascension you’ve achieved,  although you may need to revert changes to some decks to play on a lower Ascension. Ascension   Ironclad                   Colorless Cards         Act IV           When unlocked, take out the colorless rewards deck during  setup and shuffle it. Don’t shuffle it between Acts. The  party reveals 3 colorless cards at the merchant. Their cost  is based on rarity. Add the   Events and Neow’s Blessing  cards to the appropriate decks.  When unlocked, after you beat Act III, you may  continue to Act IV if you collect all 3 keys  .  See page 22 for rules on Act IV and the keys. Silent                    Defect                   Watcher                   Whenever you finish a game, each player checks 1 box per Boss defeated, plus 1 extra box each. You must  check boxes for your character until they are all checked, after which you may check Colorless or Act IV  boxes. When you check all of the boxes next to a lock, add the locked cards with a matching number        to the appropriate decks.  Unlocks  

PAGE 21:
21    Jaxxed  - Hit the Strength limit (8).    Catalyst  - Hit the Poison limit (30).     Ninja  - Play 7 Shivs in one turn.    Powerful  - Have 7 Powers in play at once.    Barricaded  - Hit the Block limit (20).    You are Nothing  - Defeat a Boss on turn 1.     All for One  - Beat Act III with 4 players.    Perfect  - Beat a Boss with all players at full HP.    Minimalist  - Beat Act III with a 5 card deck or smaller.    The Transient  - Kill The Transient before it kills itself.    Common Sense  - Beat Act III with a deck containing no uncommons or rares.    Collector  - Beat Act III with 12 relics and Boss relics combined per player.    Ruby  - Beat Act III with the Ironclad.    Emerald  - Beat Act III with the Silent.    Sapphire  - Beat Act III with the Defect.    Amethyst  - Beat Act III with the Watcher.    My Lucky Day  - Beat Act III with a Daily Climb.    Infinity  - Create an infinite card combo.    Who Needs Relics?  - Beat Act III with no relics or  Boss relics  (you can skip items) . Achievements    All Star  - Start with 5 random colorless cards.     Shiny  - Start with 5 random rare cards.     Heirloom  - Start with a random Boss relic.     Transformed  - All      become Transform a card.    Vintage  -      from encounters   become  .    Prismatic Shard  - Start with the Prismatic Shard special relic (see page 19). Also, when you gain  , each revealed card must come from a different card rewards deck of your choice. This can  include colorless rewards. When you gain  , each revealed card must come from a different  character’s rare deck of your choice. (You still reveal 3 cards total).     Terminal  - Lose 1 HP at the end of combat.     Insanity  - Anytime during the end of combat, you must Transform a random card in your deck.    Uncertain Future  - Don’t flip over map tokens during setup. Flip them when you land on that room.    Cursed  - Start with 2 random Curses.     Deadly Events  - Lose 2 HP after each Event.    Night Terrors  - You can’t Rest. As an optional game mode, you can play a Daily Climb. Roll the die twice and gain one random game  modifier from each section below. All players are affected. Custom Run To play a custom run, instead of rolling for  game modifiers, pick whichever modifiers  you want from this list. Daily Climb

PAGE 22:
Quick Start Rules Roll the Die  Act II Act III Act IV Neow Bonus 1 1 1 Gold Card Rewards Transform 1 1 1 Roll the Die Potion Relic Rare Rewards Boss Relics Card Rewards - Card Removes - 1 2 Upgrades 2 4 6 Merchant  Transform Upgrade Card Remove To start the game in Act II or later, use the table below. Gain all rewards in the top row for the starting  Act, then proceed down to the next row, repeating this process until you reach the bottom. Gain rewards  one at a time, without seeing the next reward.  The Gold is in addition to gold from Neow. “Roll the Die” once per die icon    and gain rewards that  match the result in the table on the right. Each player rolls separately. Boss relics are gained as a party,  just like when you defeat a Boss. The entire party goes to one Merchant   together as the last step.  Catch Up  - These rules can be used to bring in new players at the start of an Act. Only players catching up  use the table and visit the Merchant. Reveal Boss relics based on the number of players catching up. 22 Act IV   Ruby Key  - All players must simultaneously take no action at a  room  room  (can’t Rest or Smith).   Sapphire Key  - All players must simultaneously skip gaining a relic   at a   or   room.  Players may reveal the   before deciding. Discard revealed   if you gain the key.   Emerald Key  - Players must defeat a Burning Elite   (see below). When you fight the Burning  Elite, before combat begins, each player shuffles   into their deck. Act IV must be unlocked (see page 20). To enter Act IV you must obtain all 3 keys by the end of Act III.  The Act IV map is on the back of the Act IV Boss card. To obtain a key... Players heal at the start of Act IV, just  like they do at the start of Acts II and III. Burning Elite - Before map setup, replace an Encounter token   with a  dark back   with the Burning Elite   token. When you gain the Emerald  Key  , replace the   token back with the   token for future Acts.   Front Back

PAGE 23:
Credits Game Design by  Gary Dworetsky Anthony Giovannetti Casey Yano Based on the video game “Slay the Spire”  by  Mega Crit Developed by  Penny Rose Feldman  Joseph Johnston Arjun Krishna Andrew Narzynski Cover & Map Art by  Bruce Brenneise Art by   Anailis Dorta, Casey Yano Lead Playtesters Andrew Narzynski, Arjun Krishna,  Joseph Johnston   Playtested by Karsten Kutterer, Robin  Hassgård, Adam, Tyler Leonard,  Amanda Shagoury, Nicholas  Denny, Michael Wright, Calli  Wright, Anna Dworetsky, Jack  Cumpsty, Michael Habib, Ethan  Sams, Nikki Liu Graphic Design by  Casey Yano, Gary  Dworetsky, David Lanza     Miniatures by  TytanTroll Miniatures  Rulebook Editor  C. “Sable” Voyles  Card Bot by  Rodskin Special Thanks to  The Backers!   for making this possible Jorbs  for inspiring us John Clair  for double sided cards Anna Dworetsky  for Slaying Clemens Lohmann  for Not for Sale tag Jeremy Howard  for Monster cards Optional Rules The Last Stand When a player dies in a Boss fight, other players can continue fighting. Enemies in a row with a  dead player target the nearest row with a player below them. If there are no players below them,  they target the nearest row with a player above them.  If at least one player survives, treat this as beating that Act (or the game, if it’s your final Act). If a  player died, you cannot continue to the next Act.  Sequential Turns If simultaneous turns don’t work for your group, players can take Player Turns sequentially.  Turn Order -  The player that starts the round in the bottom lane (Lane 1) takes their Player Turn,  followed by the player to their left. This continues until all players have taken a Player Turn. When all  players have taken a Player Turn, the Enemy Turn begins. Rounds repeat like this until the end of combat. The Die -  The die is only rolled during the first Player Turn in a round. Your Effects on Your Turn -  Your abilities, die triggers, start of turn, and end of turn effects, etc.  only happen on your Player Turn. This includes when you draw cards at the start of the turn, reset  your Energy, and discard your hand. Choose Your Relic In multiplayer games, when the party gains a relic   from an Elite    or Treasure room,  reveal relics equal to the number of players. Each player chooses a revealed relic. Golden Rule Whenever a card’s text contradicts the rules, the card text takes precedence.  23

PAGE 24:
Abilities & Keywords Area of Effect    - For players, everything that follows this symbol affects all enemies in any single  row and always includes the Boss. For enemies, everything that follows this symbol affects every  player, unless the enemy is gaining Strength  or Block . (See “Targeting,” page 15.) ALL Enemies  -  The effect targets ALL enemies in EVERY row and always includes the Boss. Block   (Max 20 for players)  – Prevent the next 1 damage to a player or enemy for each point of Block  they have. After the damage is prevented, removed that much Block. Players use their player board to  track Block, while enemies use tokens. Block does not prevent “Lose X HP” effects. A player’s Block is  removed at the start of the Player Turn. An enemy’s Block is removed at the start of the Enemy Turn.  Daze    – Put a   card on top of your draw pile. They return to the Daze deck when Exhausted.  Energy     (Max 6)  – Energy is used to play cards. Each character has their own Energy  symbol, although all are equivalent and usable by any character. The   symbol is used on items and  in the rules to mean “Energy”. Ethereal -  At end of turn, if this card is in your hand, Exhaust it.  (See FAQ for Dark Embrace interaction.)  Exhaust  – An Exhausted card is removed from your deck. Keep Exhausted cards in a separate pile  and return them to your deck at the end of combat. Daze   and Status  /  cards return to their  respective piles when Exhausted. Hit    - Hits   deal damage equal to the number in front of them. Hits are affected by  Vulnerable  ,  Weak  ,  and Strength . See “Multi-hit Attacks”, page 14. (Note: “damage” effects aren’t hits.) Retain  - Retained cards are not discarded at the end of the Player Turn. Some cards have a bonus if  you Retained them. After such cards leave your hand, they “forget” that they were ever Retained. Scry X -  Look at the top X cards of your deck. You may discard any number of them. Then put any  remaining cards back on top of your deck in the same order. You can’t Scry more cards than are in  your draw pile. Scrying has no effect if your draw pile is empty. Status  /   -  Status cards use the top or bottom effect, whichever icon is on the enemy that gave it  to you. The other effect is ignored that combat. Put the Status card on top of your discard pile.   has  an Energy cost of 1. They return to the Status deck when Exhausted.  Strength  (Max 8)  – You deal +1 damage on each hit   for each   token you have. Enemies can also  gain  .  Unplayable  – Cards with “Unplayable” cannot be played and do not have an Energy cost. If an effect  attempts to play an Unplayable card (like Distilled Chaos), that card has no effect and is discarded. Vulnerable  (Max 3)  – Add a   token to the target, up to a limit of 3  per player or enemy. When  a player or enemy with   tokens is attacked, damage from each hit   in the Attack or enemy action  is doubled, then the target loses one   token. Add damage bonuses like Strength  before doubling. Weak  (Max 3)  – Add a   token to the target, up to a limit of 3   per  player or enemy. When a  player or enemy with one or more   tokens attacks, each   in the Attack or enemy action deals -1  damage, then one   token is removed. For   attacks (ex. “  2 ”) or multi-hit attacks (ex. “1  1 ”),  they still only lose a single  .  Weak vs Vulnerable -  If a Weak   target attacks a Vulnerable   target, the attack is unaffected  by both Weak   and Vulnerable . After the attack, remove a   token from the attacker, and  remove a   token from all affected targets. 24